# Freqle
Frequency from Black Holes is an asset containing some useful methods to simulate the emission of gravitational waves from ultralight boson clouds, around black holes in globular clusters.

**Installation:**
to install the package use

    pip install freqle

# Usage
A brief guide about how to use the package

## **freqle.cluster(args)**
Is the main class in freqle. It contains the fundamental methods for running the simulations. 
- **Parameters :**
  - **obs_distance** : ***float, optional***
 Default is 200<br/>
 Distance in kpc between the observer and the cluster.<br/>
  - **cluster_eta :** ***float, optional***
 Default is 1.000<br/>
 Age of the cluster in years.<br/>
  - **Nbh :** ***int, optional***
  Default is 20.000<br/>
  Number of Black Holes simulated in the cluster.  <br/>
  - **mass_dis :** ***float, optional***
  Default is *Kroupa*<br/>
  Distribution used to randomly generate black holes masses.<br/>
  - **mass_range :** ***1D array, optional***
  Default is [5, 25]<br/>
  Range of black holes masses.<br/>
  - **spin_dis :** ***{'gauss', 'lin'}, optional***
  Default is *gauss*<br/>
  Distribution used to randomly generate spins that will be assigned to the black holes. The options are linear '_lin_' or gaussian '_gauss_'. In case _gauss_ is chosen an array   of float is generated<br/>
  
    _ = numpy.arange(min_spin, max_spin, step)
    
  where step is given by <br/>

    step = (max_spin - min_spin) / Nbh.
    
  _ is a numpy array of lenght Nbh. Spin values are extracted from _ using an array of probabilities p generated by<br/>
  
    gaussian = rnd.normal(spin_mean, self. spin_sigma, int(1e6)) 
    h, bin_edges = np.histogram(gaussian, bins = self.Nbh, density = True)
    p = h * np.diff(bin_edges)
    
  than a simple random choice is used<br/>
  
    spins = numpy.random.choice(_, size = Nbh, p = p)
    
  - **spin_range :** ***1D array, optional***
  Default is [0.2, 0.9]<br/>
  Range of black holes spins. _Note: Values above 0.6 should be avoided._<br/>
  - **spin_mean :** ***float, optional***
  _Only used if spin_dis == 'gauss'_. Default is 0.4<br/>
  Mean value of the gaussian distribution used to extract spin values.  <br/>
  - **spin_sigma :** ***float, optional***
  _Only used if spin_dis == 'gauss'_. Default is 0.2<br/>
  Sigma value of the gaussian distribution used to extract spin values.  <br/>
  - **n_mus :** ***float, optional***
  Default value is 300<br/>
  Number of boson masses sampled.<br/>
  - **mu_min :** ***float, optional***
  Default value is 2.15e-13<br/>
  Minimum value for the boson mass grid. _Default value is chosen to give the best accuracy (lower number of discarted points)_<br/>
  - **mu_max :** ***float, optional***
  Default value is 1.27e-12<br/>
  Maximum value for the boson mass grid. _Default value is chosen to give the best accuracy (lowest number of discarted points)_<br/>
  - **scale :** ***{'lin', 'log'}, optional***
  Default is 'lin'<br/>
  Scale used to sample the mass grid.<br/>
  - **verbose or v:** ***bool, optional***
  Default is _False_<br/>
  If _True_ informations are printed<br/>
  - ~~**multiple_runs :**~~
  _Not implemented yet_
  - ~~**Nrun :**~~
  _Not implemented yet_
